Terminologies
Finding Analysis and Weaponization. What is
weaponization? It is the process of turning
passive reconnaissance results into directions
or launch points for active reconnaissance
and preliminary attacks. It
analyze findings for content of
interest. What is content of interest? It
consists of IP addresses and subdomains external
and third party domains, key personal
and contact information; information
that facilitates social engineering tests and
information that reveals specific technologies.
IP Address and Sub Domains. IP address
gained from OSINT will usually be
public ranges. You can leverage public
IP addresses through active scanning.
External and Third Party Sites. Perform ocean
on partner contractor or other related sites.
How you proceed will depend on
scope and actionable information.
Such examples would be glassdoor.com to be used.
People. How you leverage people information
depends on several factors such as the role
to play in the organization, the day-to-day
responsibilities, the teams and departments
they work with, business identification such as
email address and phone numbers, technical
aptitude and mindsets and perspectives.
What is social engineering? Social Engineering
is the practice of deceiving people into giving
away access to unauthorized parties or enabling
those parties to compromise sensitive assets.
Usually targets are unaware of the trick
commonly used by attackers because of how
effective it can be. So, this is usually the next
logical step after gathering people-based OSINT.
Technologies. Technology information
can prepare you to exploit specific
scenarios. On the third lesson of this
module is the preparation for the next steps.
First is record your findings and conclusion
in a document. Choose whichever document
format you're most comfortable with.
Make sure you define what next steps you need to
take on your tests. The direction should depend on
the scope of the test, findings, and
personal assessment of the situation.
The guidelines for preparing background
findings for the next steps is to, first,
clearly determine what next
steps means for your test.
Analyze the findings to determine
how to weaponize them in the future.
Consider the findings within a bigger picture
and disregard irrelevant findings and focus on
the actionable findings. Determine how public IP
addresses map to public resources you can target
and consider how public address
might be useful as entry points.